# DNA-Classifiers
Deep Learning Project. Dec 14, 2020 By Joely Nelson
In this project, I developed a convolutional neural network to classify DNA sequences from two-data sets. I mimic the architecture of the CNN used in prior work on two different datasets, and achieve close to their accuracy.

DNA carries genetic instructions for the development, function, growth and reproduction of all known organisms. DNA is essentially the programming language of life; information stored as A, T, G, and C. It makes sense that we should be able to use DNA sequences to make predictions about a gene’s function, classification, and transcription levels. However, this is extremely difficult, as there are many unknown features, and many bioinformatics algorithms must be generated by hand.
With the emergence of deep learning, which makes use of automatic feature learning, and the increase of available genetic data sets, there is an opportunity to apply deep learning to genetic datasets to make complex predictions. Machine learning models and deep neural networks have been used to predict the non-coding function of DNA, identifying DNA-binding proteins, and even predicting the transcription level of genes. This is still a new field and there is much more to be explored.
In this project, I tried to reproduce some of the work done in the paper DNA Sequence Classification by Convolutional Neural Network. Researchers treated DNA data like text and used CNNs to classify various DNA sequences. By reproducing their architecture, I am able to fine tune models that achieve close to their accuracy or better.
I wanted to do this project because I am currently applying data-driven approaches to learn more about the rules of CRISPR in the Carothers Research Group at the university of Washington. I am planning on implementing a network to classify and generate sequences that are good for CRISPR. I would like to better my understanding of making models with sequence data so when data for my project is collected, I’m ready to hit the ground running.
